Update OLS-NASA cohorts landing page (#731)
open-life-science/open-life-science.github.io: nasa/index.md

We will bring our cohort-based approach, incorporating hands-on learning and individual coaching throughout the training.

Register your interest as a [participant](https://forms.gle/bUEXdcSkt9BgY4tXA), [expert or facilitator](https://forms.gle/DcostkBpszXT9MAr8).

# Program overview

The OLS-NASA Open Science 101 program is a comprehensive 6-week training program designed for participants at any career stage. The program integrates practical training with individual coaching, supporting participants to apply open science principles, skills, and tools in their work.

# Who is this training for?

This training is aimed at researchers and research-supporting staff, from undergraduates to senior scientists. Our program is accessible to participants at any career level, fostering an inclusive environment for those taking their first steps in open science. It will be of particular interest to **individuals or teams** seeking to develop or improve an Open Science strategy or Data Management plan for their research work, whether it is in the proposal stage or already prepared to disseminate results.

> Ideas for short projects to work during the program include:

Reviewer: Love these sample ideas!

---
layout: default
title: OLS & NASA Transform to Open Science

> description: Teaching NASA-TOPS OpenCore in English

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: Teaching NASA-TOPS Open Science 101 in English
```

  url: https://flic.kr/p/2gHMJah
---

> Funded by [NASA](https://www.nasa.gov/), this program will deliver fully virtual training cohorts for the [NASA TOPS OpenCore training curriculum](https://nasa.github.io/Transform-to-Open-Science/) with a 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Get ready for an exciting project starting in 2024 in collaboration with !NASA-TOPS](https://nasa.github.io/Transform-to-Open-Science/). 
```

Author: ```suggestion
Get ready for an exciting project starting in 2024 in collaboration with [NASA-TOPS](https://nasa.github.io/Transform-to-Open-Science/).
```

> highly qualitative component throughout the training. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Funded by [NASA](https://www.nasa.gov/), OLS will bring its globally successful cohort-based approach, incorporating a personal qualitative component throughout the training.
```

# About
      

> Over three years starting in 2024, we will deliver five 6-week Virtual Cohorts per year. The cohorts will engage participants in hands-on implementation of open science concepts and tools. This program will teach one OpenCore Module per week, by bringing in speakers from across different scientific domains, allowing learners to actively embed their training in their work and reflect on their learning with guidance from expert practitioners.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
OLS cohorts under the NASA-TOPS programme will offer 6-week-long Virtual Cohorts—not one, but five of them over the next three years.

These cohorts will provide structured training, including assignments, enabling learners to actively implement open science concepts and tools in their work. We will delve into one open science module per week, with expert speakers from diverse scientific domains guiding hands-on learning.

Assignments will facilitate reflection on learned concepts, and expert coaching/consultation will provide deeper insights and guidance from practitioners within the context of research.

*Transform your approach to open science dynamically over the next three years with us. Join us and redefine your scientific journey!*
```

# Timeline

> The training will cover [the five modules in OpenCore](https://opensciency.github.io/sprint-content), and participants will work with an expert to discuss real-world application of the skills they learn. The schedule for individual cohorts is shown below:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The training will cover the five modules of the [Open Science 101 Curriculum](https://nasa.github.io/Transform-to-Open-Science/), and participants will work with an expert to discuss the real-world application of the skills they learn. The schedule for individual cohorts is shown below:
```

| Cohort timeline                 |                                | TOPS OpenCore modules |  Weeks           ||||||
|---------------------------------|--------------------------------|-----------------------|:-:|:-:|:-:|:-:|:-:|:-:|
|                                 |                                |                       | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 |   
| **Cohort Calls**                |                                | **Ethos**             | X |   |   |   |   |   |   
| ^^                              | ^^                             | **Tools & Resources** |   | X |   |   |   |   |  
| ^^                              | ^^                             | **Data**              |   |   | X |   |   |   |  
| ^^                              | ^^                             | **Code**              |   |   |   | X |   |   |  
| ^^                              | ^^                             | **Results**           |   |   |   |   | X |   | 
| **Final Graduation**            | Group presentations            |                       |   |   |   |   |   | X |

> | **Expert consultation**         | 1 expert:group project         |                       | X | X | X | X | X |   |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| **Expert coaching/consultation**         | 30-45 minutes coaching/consultation with an expert from the program  |                       | X | X | X | X | X |   |
```

> | **Reflection & implementation** | Self-led by participants       |                       | X | X | X | X | X |   \

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| **Reflection & implementation** | Self-led by participants - OLS team will provide necessary support  |                       | X | X | X | X | X |   \
```

> |                                 | - optional assignments         |                       |   |   |   |   |   |   \

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|                                 | - Assignments to apply learned skills in research projects  |                       |   |   |   |   |   |   \
```

|                                 | - prep for final presentations |                       |   |   |   |   |   |   |

The expected time commitment for this training is 4 hours per week. We plan to run **five cohorts per year**. 
We will run a pilot cohort in early 2024. 

# Join us

Interested in participating as a trainee or as an expert? Please fill out [this form](https://forms.gle/bUEXdcSkt9BgY4tXA) to register your interest.

# Want more information?

> We will be updating this post as we define further details.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We will be updating this post as we finalize further details. Watch this space!
```
